[MUSIC]
[SOUND] In this lecture we'll show a small
example of how a human can interact with
the Raspberry Pi through the library.
So somebody can write a Python
program that uses that library, and
allows the user to have the right
control over something hardware,
some aspect of the hardware,
through these widgets and
library components that
appear on the screen.
So, here's our small example
using a Scale Widget.
So a Scale Widget is basically that
slider that you see right there.
It's called a Scale.
And Tkinter.
So our program to generate that.
we start off with this from
Tkinter import star, so we import.
Master = tk, so
that's creating the master window, right?
Or the root window,
whatever you want to call it.
So we create that.
Then we create the scale.
So w = scale and we call this function
scale and it generates the scale.
And it returns w, which is the scale root,
the object to represent that scale.
And scale in this case
takes several arguments.
Some of them are required and some of them
are not, so master is the first argument.
The first argument is actually
the name of the root window,
which is mater in our case, so
you've gotta pass through that argument.
And then from _0 to 100,
that gives you the range of the scale.
So every scale has to
have a range of numbers.
See, these scales,
they all have an integer inside or
not necessarily an integer but
in our case an integer.
They have a value,
a numerical value inside there
associated with how far the scale
has moved to the left or the right.
So that value has to have a range
from something to something.
So that's what those two
arguments are from 0 to 100.
This scale starts at 0.
If you moved it all the way to
the right it would go to 100.
And you have to give it
the some kind of a range.
Now then the next argument which
is optional is the orientation.
It says orient = horizontal.
We've made a horizontal scale here.
If you didn't give it that I think
the default is actually vertical so
it could do a vertical up down scale but
either way,
you can give it an orientation
if you want to.
So, that call to scale, it returns this
scale object, which is assigned to w, so
w is now a scale.
And then to make that
appear on the screen,
we have to say w.pack, and
then it appears on the screen, and
you see something like
depending on what you're using.
You see something that looks like
the picture on the screen that scale.
Now this draws the Scale Widget and
the user can now move it.
The user can take their mouse and grab on
the widget, and grab on the slider and
slide it to the left and the right.
Now that's part of our gooey.
But that doesn't do anything
particularly interesting yet.
It draws a scale and
you can move it left to right.
But now we wanna interact with
something like that, right?
We wanna allow the user to use
that scale to control something.
Let's say have some pulse
width modulated signal, okay?
And we've talked about,
in the previous lecture, how to make
a pulse width modulated signal on a pin.
Say we've got that, and
we want the pulse width to change and
to be controlled by
the user through the scale.
So, this, so
our scale was from 0 to 100, right?
So, let's say the duty
cycle was that value.
And, if the scale was moved
all the way to the left,
its at 0, then the duty cycle is 0,
which means its low all the time.
There's pulse, pwm signal.
And, they move it all to the right
its 100, so its high all the time.
And, they can move it in between,
50, and its high half the time,
low half the time, and so on.
So, we want to make something with
a pulse width, we have a pulse
width modulated signal, the pulse
width is controlled by that scale, so
by the user, through this scale.
So, how do we do this?
So first thing, we'd have to change
our original program a little bit.
So remember that line of code
where we said w = scale.
We call that function scale, right?
So now we're changing that call.
The first four arguments are the same,
right?
Master, the root window,
the from and to, the range 0 to 100.
Orient horizontal,
make a horizontal orientation.
But we're adding this command = update.
So what that is, that's whats called
a reference tool call back function.
Now, the call back function,
in this case, is called, update.
What that means is that any time
a user actually moves that slider,
it's called this update function.
And what it, what it does is it passes
an argument to that update function.
It passes a single argument, the number
inside that is associated with this scale.
So this scale goes from 0 to 100, right?
So that number 0 to 100, according to you
know, whatever the scale is on, that is,
passes an argument to the update function.
Now this update function.
You might ask well what
is this update function?
This update function is
whatever you want it to be.
So you now have to update
this update function.
So you can see we've written
an definition of an update function.
Def update duty.
It takes an argument right?
Remember I said this update
function has to take one argument,
the value from 0 to 100 that
the scale is containing, right?
It takes it as an argument and
we just inside there we call
pwm.ChangeDuty Cyclefloatduty.
We just change the duty cycle,
make duty into a float, and
then we pass that to Change Duty Cycle.
Whatever that scale value is,
whatever the new scale value is
because this update function it only gets
called if somebody moved that scale.
If they move that scale and
they set the scale now at 25.
Then a duty will equal 25
when you make that call and
you'll change the duty cycle to 25.
And then if they take that scale and
move to 50 update will get called again,
duty will be 50,
you change the duty cycle to 50.
So, in this way,
by adding that command = update,
we've added what's called
a callback function, right?
A reference to a callback function.
Basically, a callback
function is a generic term.
It means a function that is called
when an event happens, okay?
And it's often used with
graphic user interfaces.
So, updates have callback function,
we have to define it.
And note, we don't have to
call that function update.
We chose to call it update.
We could have used any name we wanted to.
Okay?
In this case we use update.
So and we can define the update
function and do whatever we want.
In this case it's changing
pulse with modulation.
But you could be changing,
I don't know, whatever you want.
So yeah, the function takes
the slider value of an argument and
that's a way you can get
interaction to work.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]